---
published: true
layout: post
---
## My thoughts on Mapping in Humantities

I really enjoyed the debate this week within the annotated articles around the parameters for use of mapping outside of geography and social sciences. It is important to remember and consider the assumptions that we make about different visualizations and methods for analysis based on our experiences with them in other discipines. We discussed this a bit last week when exploring accessibility, that the content we create in academic writing should in some way be more accessible to the novice in a discussion. Working through my Public Humanities section for next term, I'm seeing similar themes emerge, that bringing these audiences into the discussion elivates thinking through diversity. This idea that the mapping tools may result in misinterpretation of the nature of the information presented or the meaning of the analysis is important to consider. 

I started playing around with mapping tools through Google's My Maps a few years ago for myself in trip planning and have had a few opportunities to use it with real data, overlaying responses or features of data points on a map. It can be very helpful in gaining insights or vizualizing insights about a particular subject. For instance I create the map below 5 or 6 years ago, pinning places I thought were interesting as I came across them to my map so when I planned a trip in the future I'd have a starting point. Looking at it now, its clear that the places that I was reading about and exposed to were settled on very specific areas of the world (ie. mostly Europe). I created a legend for my different pins as a point of reference but without my explanation it might be hard to imagine the purpose of these points or the context in which they were created. 

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/embed?mid=1rVYFWkprU6a6DfcRzV1mGyenCqM" width="640" height="480"></iframe>

In presenting mapping exerices within academic work, I think we need to clearly define these elements before we start, redefine them as we progress in the mapping project and include a discussion of the conventions used within the context of the map to convey meaning. Identifying how you got to the solution and why mapping was applied to it is particularly important. 

I've had the opportunity through other courses to explore a number of different digital humanities projects that use mapping. To me it is essentially a spatial representation of relationships between entities or concepts. In some cases it is tied to actual geography, in others it is a fictional landscape or another relationship that can be conveyed or described in a spatial way.
